README.md, before:

# NBIT 209 Data Structures and Algorithm

## Course Description:  
* This course will cover abstract data types and basics of algorithms, Linked lists, stacks, queues, hash tables, trees, heaps, and graphs. Students will also be taught how to derive big-Oh analysis of basic algorithms. C++ will be our language of choice for implementing our ideas in this class. Below are useful C Plul Plus material for revision if you have forgotten your programming fundamental in year one.
* We will be making heavy use of Git, Github and Project Management Tools



## Useful Reference Course Textbook
* Introduction to Algorithms, Third Edition by Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest and Stein
* Introduction to Algorithms, Fourth Edition by Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest and Stein
* Algorithms by Robert Sedgewick, Kevin Wayne 
* Data Structures and Algorithms in C++ by Adam Drozdek
* Data Structures & Algorithm Analysis in C++ by Mark Weiss
* Data Structures and Algorithms in C++ by Michael Goodrich

# Useful Resources on Vim Editor, Git and Basic Linux Commands 
- [The Missing Semester of Your CS Education](https://missing.csail.mit.edu/)
- [System and Software Tools](https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse391/23au/)
- [Pro Git Book, written by Scott Chacon and Ben Straub](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)


## More C++ Resources
- [Standford](https://web.stanford.edu/class/cs106l/)
- [Caltech](http://courses.cms.caltech.edu/cs11/material/advcpp/)
- [Bonn](https://www.ipb.uni-bonn.de/index.html%3Fp=4044.html)
- [Upenn](https://www.seas.upenn.edu/~cis1900/)
- [Purdue](https://engineering.purdue.edu/~smidkiff/cpp3hr.html)
- [Vanderbilt](https://www.dre.vanderbilt.edu/~schmidt/cs251/)
- [Main](https://github.com/federico-busato/Modern-CPP-Programming)
- [Sun](https://sun.aei.polsl.pl/~rstaros/S/CP_lectures/index.html)
- [DS Apply - Illinois](https://courses.engr.illinois.edu/cs225/fa2023/pages/lectures.html)
- [DS Apply KAIST](https://yung-web.github.io/home/courses/datastructure.html)
- [DS Apply](https://ceng218.cankaya.edu.tr/course.php?page=Lecture%20Notes)
- [DS Apply](https://www.iitgoa.ac.in/~sreejithav/21Aug/cs220.html)
- [DS Apply](https://cse.buffalo.edu/~hungngo/classes/2014/Fall/250/index.html)
- [DS Apply](https://www2.cs.sfu.ca/CourseCentral/225/johnwill/)
- [DS Apply](https://bytes.usc.edu/cs104/)
- [DS Apply](https://web.stanford.edu/class/cs166/)
- [DS Apply](https://web.csie.ndhu.edu.tw/showyang/DS2021f/index.html)
- [DS Apply](https://web.eecs.utk.edu/~jplank/plank/classes/cs202/)
- [DS Apply](https://cslab.pepperdine.edu/warford/cosc320/index.html)
- [DS Apply](https://www.comp.nus.edu.sg/~stevenha/cs2040s.html)
- [Algorithms Apply](https://algorithms.luisperez.me/lectures/)

## Useful Videos
- [College Of DuPage - CIS2541 - C++ Language Programming](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL0Weiym0lCDKtzBftf356CVKIQB4rTG2J)
- [College of DuPage - CIS2542 - Advanced C++ Programming](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL0Weiym0lCDIv6x6QZzh7Jxk7d3FSvk9i)
- [CSCI 40 - Clovis Community College](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLO_S0qryanlNV-A92qCqdXsaLSXuDc9ij)
- [CSCI 41 - Clovis Community College](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLO_S0qryanlNIx27rwhXjP6Z-QkhcaNSR)
- [CSCI 40](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLSVD_4SKyaWHIUuUH_XZqGc0hAqpz34rR)
- [CSCI 41](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLSVD_4SKyaWGHyMA_NOITrZP0xh083FjK)
- [C++ Programming 1](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLsvgJUFgyp7SPKq1H3ZWEcGjVodq8Ue4Q)
- [C++ Programming 2](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLsvgJUFgyp7R1BWMAUaI-s15Ice1ZxBQm)
- [First Year C++ Programming](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLU4IQLU9e_OqLz5EFCd3GPXR0YUk_gMkg)
- [Basics](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLexIiOuQLvd_OP9_H1Tfg_5uAWkjpFgc1)
- [CS 135 Computer Science 1 (C++ basics)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLrosN5xeGOCufFv6DaZ4eR83ZfNDwphE3)
- [CS 202 Computer Science 2 (Object Oriented Programming](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLrosN5xeGOCs-rAFHVjk34mGwR_9bKQDI)
- [CS 302 Data Structures](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLrosN5xeGOCvpWicvrmKINyEdohov0qfc)
- [CS302](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLuCVd59PWc0SgkQhLbVEp3UkJO47u4yKn)
- [CS477](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLuCVd59PWc0TQbLqNL6CKtSAJESlZDMAC)
- [C++ Programming](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLi2pCZz5m6GHMKGexKbKwnk7SiTecIeUG)

## Useful C++ Documentation
- [CPP Reference](https://en.cppreference.com/w/)
- [cplusplus](https://cplusplus.com/reference/)

 ## Visualization Link For Concept Understanding
 - [1](https://csvistool.com/)
 - [2](https://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/visualization/Algorithms.html)
 - [3](https://algorithm-visualizer.org/)
 - [4](https://ez2rok.github.io/recursion-visualizer/)

## Problem Solving Challenges
- [Meta Hacker Cup](https://web.facebook.com/codingcompetitions)
- [Google Coding Competitions problems](https://github.com/google/coding-competitions-archive)
- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/)


## Term Projects, Assignments and Quizs 
- Project: You will be assign a technical research publication paper and your major task would be translating the algorithm into a C++ readable working code 
- Quiz: Weekly Oral Interview Assesment (Coding Interview and techical questions and answering)
- Assignment: Problem Solving and Reading


## Contributing to C++ Open Source Projects 
- [Google Summer of Code Projects](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/)
- [Open Source Projects on Github](https://github.com/trending/c++?since=daily)

## Applying for Internship
- [Google](https://careers.google.com/)
- [Meta formally Facebook](https://metacareers.com/)
- [Microsoft](https://careers.microsoft.com/)
- [TikTok](https://careers.tiktok.com/)
- [Apple](https://www.apple.com/careers/)
- [And many other companies on LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/)

Commit message:

Update README.md for assignment

README.md, after:

# NBIT 209 Data Structures and Algorithm

## Course Description:  
* This course will cover abstract data types and basics of algorithms, Linked lists, stacks, queues, hash tables, trees, heaps, and graphs. Students will also be taught how to derive big-Oh analysis of basic algorithms. C++ will be our language of choice for implementing our ideas in this class. Below are useful C Plul Plus material for revision if you have forgotten your programming fundamental in year one.
* We will be making heavy use of Git, Github and Project Management Tools



## Useful Reference Course Textbook
* Introduction to Algorithms, Third Edition by Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest and Stein
* Introduction to Algorithms, Fourth Edition by Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest and Stein
* Algorithms by Robert Sedgewick, Kevin Wayne 
* Data Structures and Algorithms in C++ by Adam Drozdek
* Data Structures & Algorithm Analysis in C++ by Mark Weiss
* Data Structures and Algorithms in C++ by Michael Goodrich

# Useful Resources on Vim Editor, Git and Basic Linux Commands 
- [The Missing Semester of Your CS Education](https://missing.csail.mit.edu/)
- [System and Software Tools](https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse391/23au/)
- [Pro Git Book, written by Scott Chacon and Ben Straub](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)


## More C++ Resources
- [Standford](https://web.stanford.edu/class/cs106l/)
- [Caltech](http://courses.cms.caltech.edu/cs11/material/advcpp/)
- [Bonn](https://www.ipb.uni-bonn.de/index.html%3Fp=4044.html)
- [Upenn](https://www.seas.upenn.edu/~cis1900/)
- [Purdue](https://engineering.purdue.edu/~smidkiff/cpp3hr.html)
- [Vanderbilt](https://www.dre.vanderbilt.edu/~schmidt/cs251/)
- [Main](https://github.com/federico-busato/Modern-CPP-Programming)
- [Sun](https://sun.aei.polsl.pl/~rstaros/S/CP_lectures/index.html)
- [DS Apply - Illinois](https://courses.engr.illinois.edu/cs225/fa2023/pages/lectures.html)
- [DS Apply KAIST](https://yung-web.github.io/home/courses/datastructure.html)
- [DS Apply](https://ceng218.cankaya.edu.tr/course.php?page=Lecture%20Notes)
- [DS Apply](https://www.iitgoa.ac.in/~sreejithav/21Aug/cs220.html)
- [DS Apply](https://cse.buffalo.edu/~hungngo/classes/2014/Fall/250/index.html)
- [DS Apply](https://www2.cs.sfu.ca/CourseCentral/225/johnwill/)
- [DS Apply](https://bytes.usc.edu/cs104/)
- [DS Apply](https://web.stanford.edu/class/cs166/)
- [DS Apply](https://web.csie.ndhu.edu.tw/showyang/DS2021f/index.html)
- [DS Apply](https://web.eecs.utk.edu/~jplank/plank/classes/cs202/)
- [DS Apply](https://cslab.pepperdine.edu/warford/cosc320/index.html)
- [DS Apply](https://www.comp.nus.edu.sg/~stevenha/cs2040s.html)
- [Algorithms Apply](https://algorithms.luisperez.me/lectures/)

## Useful Videos
- [College Of DuPage - CIS2541 - C++ Language Programming](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL0Weiym0lCDKtzBftf356CVKIQB4rTG2J)
- [College of DuPage - CIS2542 - Advanced C++ Programming](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL0Weiym0lCDIv6x6QZzh7Jxk7d3FSvk9i)
- [CSCI 40 - Clovis Community College](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLO_S0qryanlNV-A92qCqdXsaLSXuDc9ij)
- [CSCI 41 - Clovis Community College](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLO_S0qryanlNIx27rwhXjP6Z-QkhcaNSR)
- [CSCI 40](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLSVD_4SKyaWHIUuUH_XZqGc0hAqpz34rR)
- [CSCI 41](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLSVD_4SKyaWGHyMA_NOITrZP0xh083FjK)
- [C++ Programming 1](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLsvgJUFgyp7SPKq1H3ZWEcGjVodq8Ue4Q)
- [C++ Programming 2](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLsvgJUFgyp7R1BWMAUaI-s15Ice1ZxBQm)
- [First Year C++ Programming](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLU4IQLU9e_OqLz5EFCd3GPXR0YUk_gMkg)
- [Basics](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLexIiOuQLvd_OP9_H1Tfg_5uAWkjpFgc1)
- [CS 302 Data Structures](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLrosN5xeGOCvpWicvrmKINyEdohov0qfc)
- [CS302](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLuCVd59PWc0SgkQhLbVEp3UkJO47u4yKn)
- [CS477](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLuCVd59PWc0TQbLqNL6CKtSAJESlZDMAC)
- [C++ Programming](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLi2pCZz5m6GHMKGexKbKwnk7SiTecIeUG)

## Useful C++ Documentation
- [CPP Reference](https://en.cppreference.com/w/)
- [cplusplus](https://cplusplus.com/reference/)

 ## Visualization Link For Concept Understanding
 - [1](https://csvistool.com/)
 - [2](https://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/visualization/Algorithms.html)
 - [3](https://algorithm-visualizer.org/)
 - [4](https://ez2rok.github.io/recursion-visualizer/)

## Problem Solving Challenges
- [Meta Hacker Cup](https://web.facebook.com/codingcompetitions)
- [Google Coding Competitions problems](https://github.com/google/coding-competitions-archive)
- [leetcode](https://leetcode.com/)


## Term Projects, Assignments and Quizs 
- Project: You will be assign a technical research publication paper and your major task would be translating the algorithm into a C++ readable working code 
- Quiz: Weekly Oral Interview Assesment (Coding Interview and techical questions and answering)
- Assignment: Problem Solving and Reading

# Assignment 
### Week1 Assignment:  Kindly watch this videos to refresh your memory on C++
- [CS 135 Computer Science 1 (C++ basics)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLrosN5xeGOCufFv6DaZ4eR83ZfNDwphE3)
- [CS 202 Computer Science 2 (Object Oriented Programming](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLrosN5xeGOCs-rAFHVjk34mGwR_9bKQDI)

## Contributing to C++ Open Source Projects 
- [Google Summer of Code Projects](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/)
- [Open Source Projects on Github](https://github.com/trending/c++?since=daily)

## Applying for Internship
- [Google](https://careers.google.com/)
- [Meta formally Facebook](https://metacareers.com/)
- [Microsoft](https://careers.microsoft.com/)
- [TikTok](https://careers.tiktok.com/)
- [Apple](https://www.apple.com/careers/)
- [And many other companies on LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/)
